# System-Analysis-and-Design
A repository for my CS-255 System Analysis and Design Coursework

# Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
DriverPass is a company that aims to help improve the success rate of driving tests at the DMV, helping people earn their driver's licenses by giving them resources and training. They saw a large space open in the online market and decide to make their product into a web application, giving classroom material, driving appointment access, and various other tools to customers. DriverPass' online instructional/scheduling system is the system that I was tasked with designing.
# What did you do particularly well?
I think I did an excellent job of keeping the project's scope and capability realistic. For instance, I used a lot of third-party tools instead of trying to reinvent the wheel. I used a third-party calendar to schedule appointments, a third-party payment app, and a third-party cloud for data storage. The system is capable of doing everything DriverPass requests and doesn't go outside of those bounds or try to do anything crazy. It's a very modest, realistic system that I feel could translate well to a low-budget project.
# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
Some of the non-functional requirements felt small compared to my other sections, and I've wondered if I could flesh them out a bit to be more descriptive. It's difficult to think of every requirement for a system, and I think that giving it a second go-over would help me think of things that I didn't think of before. I also think doing System Design is probably a lot more smoothly when you have a team, at least because different people will be able to think of all the different use cases and system requirements that are more niche.
# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
It can be difficult to pick apart what a user truly needs vs what a user wants because oftentimes they don't understand what they're asking for. It takes a lot of analytical thinking and proper prioritization, to pick out requirements from user stories and then refine those requirements into what you do need and what you don't need. 
# How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
When designing a piece of software, I try to start with the core goal of the project and then stem from there. I often struggle with hyper-focusing on a few aspects of a piece of software and struggling to tie up the other aspects. I'm still figuring out the balancing act of it all, and I think that is an especially important aspect to try and master for system design. Systems have a lot more going on to them than just programming, so it's important to keep in mind all of these connections while designing them. Organizing is super important, and I have a few techniques that help me with this when writing a piece of software. I will often outline things in comments before I start implementing, and then unit test bit by bit so I don't lose track of where I am.
